.TH dbd2csv "March 2026" "Version 1.7.2" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
dbd2csv \- translate
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
 files into a comma separated value,
.I CSV,
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbd2csv
.B [\-hrsASVv]
.B "[\-c filename]"
.B "[\-C directory]"
.B "[\-k filename]"
.B "[\-l level]"
.B "[\-m mission]"
.B "[\-M mission]"
.B "[\-o filename]"
.B "[--sort order]"
dbdFiles...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read in a set of
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
files, and translate them into
a comma separate value output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-c filename "
A comma, space, tab, and/or newline deliminated file containing names of sensors to
select rows on. If any sensor specified by the file is set or updated in a row,
the row is output into the
.I CSV
output.
.TP
.B "\-C directory"
Directory to use for cached sensor lists.

For each
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
file that contains a sensor list,
if the filename derived from the
.B sensor_list_crc
record in the header records
does not exist in the
.B directory,
then create a sensor list file.

For each
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
file that does not contain a sensor list, and
whose sensor list has not been seen already, look in the
.B directory
for an appropriate sensor list file.

If the directory does not exist, it is created using
.B std::filesystem::create_directories,
which honors the current
.B umask
(typically producing mode 0755 with the default umask of 022).
.TP
.B \-h
display a short help message
.TP
.B "\-k filename"
A comma, space, tab, and/or newline deliminated file containing names of sensors to
output into the
.I CSV
output.
.TP
.B "\-m mission"
For each
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
file, if the header record
.B mission_name
is mission, skip processing this file.

This option may be repeated multiple times.
.TP
.B "\-M mission"
For each
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
file, if the header record
.B mission_name
is mission, process this file.

This option may be repeated multiple times.
.TP
.B "\-o filename"
Filename of generated comma separated value output.

.B "The \-o option is required."
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-repair
Attempt to repair bad data records by scanning for the next valid data tag.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-skipFirst
Skip the first data record in each
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
file, except for the first file. Mutually exclusive with \-A.
.TP
.B \-A, \-\-skipAll
Skip the first data record in ALL files including the first.
Mutually exclusive with \-s.
.TP
.B \-S, \-\-strict
Fail immediately on any file error (no partial results).
.TP
.B "\-\-sort order"
File sort order before processing. Choices: none (default, preserve command\-line order),
header_time (sort by fileopen_time from DBD headers), lexicographic (alphabetical).
.TP
.B "\-l level, \-\-log\-level level"
Set the logging level (trace, debug, info, warn, error, critical, off). Default: warn.
.TP
.B \-V
Print out software version.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable output of some diagnostic information.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B
dbd2csv -o foobar.csv *.dbd
.PP
Read in all the files ending in .dbd, and output the data as a comma separated values
into fobar.csv.
.SH EXIT STATUS
A non-zero return code indicates an unrecoverable error occurred.
A zero return code indicates success.
.SH NOTES
Blank fields in the output were not set in the input.
One and two byte inputs are output as integers.
Four byte inputs are output with 7 significant digits.
Eight byte inputs are output with 15 significant digits.

This was designed to translate the
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
files generated by
.B "Webb Research's SLOCUM"
gliders.
.SH AUTHOR
Pat Welch (pat (at) mousebrains.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
dbdSensors(1)
dbd2netCDF(1)

.SH COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Copyright (C) 2012 Pat Welch
Licenced under GPLV3.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute  modified  versions  of  this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under  the  terms  of  a  permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission  is  granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for  modified  versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Free Software Foundation.
