.TH dbdSensors "February 2012" "Version 1.0" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
dbdSensors \- extract sensor information from
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
 files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbdSensors
.B [\-hV]
.B "[\-C directory]"
.B "[\-m mission]"
.B "[\-M mission]"
.B "[\-o filename]"
dbdFiles...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read in a set of
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
files, and extract sensor information.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-C directory"
Directory to use for cached sensor lists.

For each
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
file that contains a sensor list,
if the filename derived from the
.B sensor_list_crc
record in the header records
does not exist in the
.B directory,
then create a sensor list file.

For each
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
file that does not contain a sensor list, and
whose sensor list has not been seen already, look in the
.B directory
for an appropriate sensor list file.

.B "If the directory does not exist, it is created world writeable!"
.TP
.B \-h
display a short help message
.TP
.B "\-m mission"
For each
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
file, if the header record
.B mission_name
is mission, skip processing this file.

This option may be repeated multiple times.
.TP
.B "\-M mission"
For each
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
file, if the header record
.B mission_name
is mission, process this file.

This option may be repeated multiple times.
.TP
.B "\-o filename"
Filename to write sensor list to.
.TP
.B \-V
Print out software version.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B
dbdSensors -o foobar.sensors *.dbd
.PP
Read in all the files ending in .dbd, and output a list of the sensors.
.SH EXIT STATUS
A non-zero return code indicates an unrecoverable error occurred.
A zero return code indicates success.
.SH NOTES
The output list of sensors contains four columns.
The first one is the index of the sensor.
The second column is the size in bytes of the sensor.
The third column is the name of the sensor.
The forth column is the units of the sensor.

The size of the sensor is
1 for a one byte integer,
2 for a two byte integer,
4 for a four byte floating value, and
8 for an eight byte double value.
.SH NOTES
This was  designed to translate the
.I "Dinkum Binary Data"
files generated by
.B "Webb Research's SLOCUM"
gliders.
.SH AUTHOR
Pat Welch (pat (at) mousebrains.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
dbdnetCDF(1)
dbd2csv(1)
ncdump(1)

.SH COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Copyright (C) 2012 Pat Welch
Licenced under GPLV3.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute  modified  versions  of  this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under  the  terms  of  a  permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission  is  granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for  modified  versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Free Software Foundation.
