.TH decompressTWR "March 2026" "Version 1.7.2" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
decompressTWR \- decompress TWR Slocum LZ4 compressed glider files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B decompressTWR
.B [\-hpvV]
.B "[\-l level]"
.B "[\-o directory]"
files...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Teledyne Webb Research Slocum gliders can produce LZ4-compressed variants of
the Dinkum Binary Data files, identified by filenames with a
.B c
in the second character of the extension (for example,
.I .dcd, .ecd, .scd, .tcd, .mcd, .ncd).
This tool decompresses those files back into their uncompressed equivalents
(for example,
.I .dbd, .ebd, .sbd, .tbd, .mbd, .nbd).

Uncompressed files are copied through unchanged.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
display a short help message
.TP
.B "\-l level, \-\-log\-level level"
Set the logging level (trace, debug, info, warn, error, critical, off). Default: warn.
.TP
.B "\-o directory, \-\-output directory"
Directory in which to write decompressed output. Defaults to the current
directory.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-pipe
Write decompressed output to stdout instead of a file.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print out software version.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable output of some diagnostic information.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B
decompressTWR -o uncompressed *.?c?
.PP
Decompress every file whose extension has
.B c
in the middle, placing the uncompressed outputs in the
.I uncompressed
directory.
.TP
.B
decompressTWR -p glider.dcd | od -c | head
.PP
Decompress a single file to stdout for ad\-hoc inspection.
.SH EXIT STATUS
A zero return code indicates success. A non\-zero return code indicates the
input could not be opened, the output file could not be written, or rename of
the temporary output to its final name failed.
.SH NOTES
The tool writes to a uniquely-named temporary file first, then atomically
renames it into place once the full decompression has succeeded. This avoids
leaving partially-written files behind if the process is interrupted.
.SH AUTHOR
Pat Welch (pat (at) mousebrains.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
dbd2netCDF(1)
dbd2csv(1)

.SH COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Copyright (C) 2023 Pat Welch
Licenced under GPLV3.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute  modified  versions  of  this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under  the  terms  of  a  permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission  is  granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for  modified  versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Free Software Foundation.
