.TH pd02netCDF "March 2026" "Version 1.7.2" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
pd02netCDF \- translate Teledyne RDI
.I "PD0"
ADCP files into a netCDF file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pd02netCDF
.B [\-hvV]
.B "[\-l level]"
.B "\-o filename"
pd0Files...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read in a set of Teledyne RDI
.I "PD0"
formatted ADCP data files and translate them into a single netCDF file.

The tool scans every input file to find the largest number of depth cells, then
creates netCDF variables sized to that maximum. Fixed Leader, Variable Leader,
and velocity fields are populated from each PD0 ensemble. Header variables
(filename, start index, stop index) track which records came from which input
file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
display a short help message
.TP
.B "\-l level, \-\-log\-level level"
Set the logging level (trace, debug, info, warn, error, critical, off). Default: warn.
.TP
.B "\-o filename, \-\-output filename"
Filename of the generated netCDF output. Required.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print out software version.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable output of some diagnostic information.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B
pd02netCDF -o adcp.nc *.pd0
.PP
Read in all the files ending in
.I .pd0
and output the combined data into
.I adcp.nc.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 2
A
.B MyException
was thrown (for example a malformed PD0 record).
.TP
.B 3
An unexpected
.B std::exception
was thrown.
.SH NOTES
This tool was designed to work with PD0 files produced by Teledyne RDI ADCPs
mounted on or alongside Slocum gliders.
.SH AUTHOR
Pat Welch (pat (at) mousebrains.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
dbd2netCDF(1)
dbd2csv(1)
ncdump(1)

.SH COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Copyright (C) 2012 Pat Welch
Licenced under GPLV3.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this manual
provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute  modified  versions  of  this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under  the  terms  of  a  permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission  is  granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for  modified  versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Free Software Foundation.
